[THEME MUSIC]
>> Hello and welcome.
I'm Jeffrey Mishlove.
Today, we're going
to be exploring
the holographic model of
reality and its implications
for ourselves, our bodies,
and the world around us.
With me today is
Michael Talbot, author
of several books, including
"Mysticism and the New
Physics," "Beyond the Quantum,"
"Your Past Lives," and most
recently, "The
Holographic Universe,"
as well as three novels.
Welcome, Michael.
>> Thank you, Jeffrey.
>> It's a pleasure
to be with you.
>> Nice to be with you.
>> One of the things that you
point out in "The Holographic
Universe" is that this is a
model that's been around now
for a few decades, but it's--
>> Right.
>> --it's really beginning to
show its power in explaining
many, many areas of personal
experience and science.
At the same time, can
we talk a little bit
about how the model developed?
>> Sure.
It was developed by two
men-- a University of London
physicist named
David Bohm, who was
a former protege of Einstein,
and a Stanford University
neurophysiologist
named Karl Pribram.
And they worked independently.
Pribram was studying
memory and found
that there's evidence that the
brain operates holographically.
And Bohm was studying
subatomic physics
and found that on the subatomic
level, the fabric of reality
seems to possess properties that
are reminiscent of a hologram.
So if you put those
two ideas together
that our brain seems
to be holographic
and the universe is holographic,
it suggests that maybe--
it's compelling evidence
that the universe
may be a kind of hologram.
Not that it's
literally a hologram,
but that it's a
good metaphor or way
of understanding the universe.
>> Now when you say
it's holographic,
what do we mean really?
>> In a nutshell, that
reality may be more plastic
and changeable like an image
than a solid construct,
a sort of sticks
and stones world.
It has a couple of other
implications, one of which
is that a hologram has
an unusual property.
If you take a piece of
photographic film that has
a holographic image
encoded in it,
that means that you cannot see
the image with your naked eye.
You have to-- to
reconstruct the image,
you have to shine
a laser through it.
So if you have an image
of rose in the film,
shine a laser through the rose.
You'll get a three-dimensional
image of the rose
on the other side.
If you cut that film
in half, shine a laser
through each piece,
you'll get a whole
rose out of each piece, which
is a very unusual property
and sort of boggles the
imagination at first.
Cut it in four,
you get four roses.
Cut it in eight,
you get eight roses.
So if the universe is
a hologram, it means,
as William Blake said,
that, quite literally, you
could find the universe
in a grain of sand,
that every portion
of the universe
contains some semblance of the
whole, of the whole universe.
>> That's very profound.
>> Very.
>> I mean, that's--
it's mind boggling.
And one of the things
that you point out
in a footnote of your book
that I would like to mention
is that this doesn't
apply for many
of the kinds of
holographic images
that are popularly sold--
>> Right, yes.
>> --as pendants and the like
that don't require laser light.
>> Right.
Every talk I give, someone comes
up and says they cut the la--
the hologram in half on their
credit card and ruined it
and didn't get the effect.
And it only applies to those
images that you cannot see with
the naked eye, that you have
to reconstruct with a laser.
>> If you were to look
at holographic film,
it might look like
ripples on a pond,
unless the laser light
is shined through it.
>> Right.
There's no decipherable
image in the film.
And it very much does look
like ripples in a pond.
Like when you drop
pebbles into a pond,
there are all sorts
of little circles.
>> They're called
interference patterns.
>> Right.
The same as when you drop
two pebbles in a pond
and the ripples criss-cross.
That is exactly
what is in the film.
It's the criss-crossing
of the laser light
that's recorded on
the photographic film.
>> So there's the sense about
a hologram that there's two
levels.
One is this three-dimensional
image that's projected.
And it can look so real that you
want to reach out and touch it.
And in the other level are
these interference patterns.
>> Right.
That reality in a
hologram can be--
can manifest in two
ways-- as a concrete image
or as this sort of
indecipherable blur of energy.
And an analogy to
this is like when
you're watching Johnny Carson
on your television set.
His image is
encoded in two ways.
One is as the concrete
image on the TV set.
One is as the blur
of radio waves
permeating the living room.
And if the universe
is a hologram
of some sense in
some way, it suggests
that there may be two very
drastically different levels
to reality, that the concrete
reality we see when we look
at these chairs and at the trees
and the clouds and everything
like that--
>> Our bodies.
>> --are just one way
that reality manifests.
And that at some deep
level, there's another--
there's a level of reality
where everything dissolves
into an ocean of energy that is
holographically interconnected,
where every portion
of the universe
is contained in every
tiny area of the universe.
>> So that implies at this
notion that we go about
our everyday lives with thinking
of ourselves as separate from
each other and the cup is
separate from the coffee that
goes in the cup it, but that
these notions are somehow,
what would you say, superficial
or contradicted at a deeper
level?
>> Well, they're
artificial, definitely.
And Bohm really stresses this.
And it's a very
interesting notion.
Because in our Western
way of thinking,
we're so attached to
the idea that when
we come up with a concept
like an apple or an electron
or whatever, that
that exists out there.
And we forget-- it's kind of
like fish unaware of the water
in which they swim--
that the conceptual
pigeonholes we use,
words, to describe reality
are phenomena inside our head.
They're not out there.
And most of the time, this
is a philosophical quibble.
But when you get down
to quantum physics--
and this is one of the
reasons that Bohm came up with
the holographic idea--
it starts to have real effects.
And one of those is
it's been discovered
that if you take two subatomic
particles like electrons,
in certain instances, when
you do something to one,
it will always affect the other,
no matter how far apart they
are.
And it's kind of like
stories that you've
heard of identical twins
where when one is hurt,
the other feels the pain.
And the problem is is that
we can find no process known
to physics that explains
how these could be sending
a signal back and forth.
In fact--
>> Because it would have to be
faster than the speed of light.
>> Instantaneous.
It would have to be an
instantaneous signal.
And Einstein's
theory of relativity
said you can't have
instantaneous signals,
because it would mean that you
could violate the time barrier
and conceivably call
your grandfather
and tell him not to
marry your grandmother.
And most physicists
say, well, this
would be just too
troubling to incorporate
into a rational
picture of reality.
Bohm explains it in a
different way, which
is a very interesting way.
And he says, if you
imagine that you've
got an aquarium in which
you have a fish swimming,
you have a TV camera facing
the front of the aquarium,
one facing the side
of the aquarium,
and you have a monitor
attached to each camera,
and you also imagine
further that you
come from a culture that's
never seen aquariums, never seen
fish, never seen
monitors or the cameras,
all you are privy to is
the two images on this--
on these screens.
He says that maybe if you
look at these two screens,
you're going to
see a fish that--
a side view of a fish and
a frontal view of a fish.
Because you don't know
what the deeper reality is,
the reality of the
aquarium, you may
assume that these are
two separate things.
But--
>> Two different fish.
>> Two different fish,
two different objects.
But every time one
fish moves, the other's
going to make a
corresponding movement.
And you may then jump
to the conclusion
that somehow the one fish
is signaling the other,
communicating to the other
to say, hey, do this,
instantaneously.
And Bohm says,
this is what we've
done with subatomic
particles, that we
assume that an instantaneous
communication is
going on when that's not
really what's going on at all.
At a deeper level, a very
holographic level of reality,
every particle in the
universe collapses
to a sort of cosmic unity.
They're not
signaling each other.
They're like that fish
where there's-- the level
of the aquarium.
And so what that means,
talking about words,
is that there is no
separation between electrons.
Furthermore, there's no
separation between people.
And this has all kinds of
very boggling implications,
one of which is
that we've always
tried to understand,
for example,
psychic phenomena like how
could I get information out
of your head in my head as
some sort of single going back
and forth?
But if we're organized, if
we live in a universe that's
organized holographically,
you no longer
have to tackle it that way.
It could be that I have
the entire universe
and every neuron, every cell,
every atom, every electron
in my head and you do also.
So when we can
access that, we can
access information
that seems to be
beyond our normal sensory reach.
>> Well, I'm very interested
in psychic phenomenon.
And I know you've had
many personal experiences.
>> Right.
>> And I want to touch on it,
but this is not a model that
was developed in order to
explain psychic phenomenon.
I think to neuropsychologists
like Karl Pribram, the fact
that it happens to
provide an explanation
for psychic phenomena is almost
a bit of an embarrassment,
that he developed the
holographic model because he
was trying to come
to terms with memory.
>> Right, right.
>> So let's talk about that.
>> Sure.
Pribram was working under a very
famous neurophysiologist named
Karl Lashley.
And it was at a time
when it was believed
that memory was stored in a
specific spot in the brain.
And there was something called
the proverbial grandmother
cell, that there was
literally a cell in your brain
that contained the memory of
your grandmother, what you
knew about your grandmother.
And so they did a rather
gruesome series of experiments
for animal lovers, but it
came out with some very
profound information.
They took rats, and they
taught them how to run mazes.
And then they would surgically
remove various portions
of their brain, Pribram and
his mentor, Karl Lashley.
The reasoning being
that if they found--
if they could remove the--
a portion of the
brain and the rat
could no longer run
the maze, they'd
found the area of
the brain where
the rat's memory of the
maze-running ability
was encoded.
Now every time they removed a
different portion of the brain,
they discovered that
they could never
remove the memory of
how to run the maze.
They could impair
the rat's ability
so it might limp
through the maze,
but they couldn't remove it.
And really, surgeons had
known this for a while.
Doctors had known
this for a while.
Because when people
have head injuries,
they don't forget
half of the alphabet
or half of their family or
half of a novel they read.
They have global
memory impairment,
where their entire
memory may be hazy,
but memories don't seem
to be stored in our heads
in the same way that books
are stored on a shelf.
And it wasn't until the '60s
when Pribram encountered
the holographic model that says
that the whole is contained
in every part that
he said, a-ha,
this may be what's
going on in the brain.
Specifically because
a hologram is made out
of interference patterns,
the hologram that you see,
that we talked about earlier,
is made of the interference
pattern of laser light--
but it can be made out of
the interference patterns
of any kind of energy--
electromagnetic energy,
electricity, x-rays, even.
And so Pribram said since
our synapses are constantly
giving off electrical
impulses, these
are like proverbial
pebbles dropping
into the sort of electromagnetic
pool of our brain.
They're sending out ripples that
are constantly criss-crossing.
And he believes that's what the
brain hologram-- that's wha--
how we think and
how we remember,
is through that hologram
inside the head.
>> It would apply in
another sense, too.
Because if you take
a hologram image
and cut it in half or in
quarters or in tenths,
each time you reduce
it in size, the image
becomes fuzzier and fuzzier--
>> Right.
>> --even though the
whole image is there,
just the way memory
would seem to be.
And--
>> Yeah.
It becomes fuzzier when you have
portions of the brain removed.
>> Yeah.
>> Correct.
>> And Pribram then also noticed
that the same principle applied
for visual information
processing.
>>Well, yes.
It's very interesting.
He did not make the
discovery, but he
came upon the research
done by other res--
other investigators.
And that is another
very interesting thing.
As you know, Mother
Nature uses all kinds
of mathematical languages.
When we go to understand
physical phenomena,
we generally find
that there's some sort
of mathematical underpinning
to whatever the phenomena is.
There are uncountable
mathematical languages.
It turns out that the
mathematical language involved
in the making of a hologram
is a system of mathematics
and developed by a
French man named Fourier.
They're called
Fourier transforms.
Well, it also turns
out that our brain
uses Fourier transforms to
translate visual information.
And this is a very
unusual state of affairs.
It's kind of like discovering
Eskimos speaking Spanish.
It's not proof that the
brain is a hologram,
but it's suggestive that
the brain is a hologram.
And it turns out, in
fact, all of our senses
appear to rely on sort
of Fourier transforms,
that they all seem to
use the same mathematics.
So again, here's
evidence that the brain
uses the same mathematics to
decipher the sensory world
as are involved in the making of
a hologram, which is, as I say,
not proof, but
compelling evidence
that something is
going on there.
>> Well, what this seems to
suggest is a new way of looking
at consciousness itself.
>> Very much so.
Yeah.
And it's an interesting thing.
I have to say that I differ
a little with Pribram.
Because Pribram thinks
that the brain--
as I said, that it's the
electrical interference
patterns in the brain
that is a brain hologram.
I'm kind of a mystic.
Because at a young age, I
had an out-of-body experience
where I left my body.
And it became quite
apparent to me
while I was having this
experience that I was thinking,
but my brain was
back in my body,
which I could see in my bed.
I knew it wasn't just a
dream because I floated out
over the ground outside
my family's house.
And I saw a book
lying on the ground.
And it was a book by the
French short story writer Guy
de Maupassant.
And the next day, a neighbor
said, by the way, Michael,
I lost a library book
by Guy de Maupassant.
Have you seen it?
And I thought, well, I
floated over it last night.
I didn't tell the
neighbor that, but there
are-- there was the book.
And I was always very--
I'm still very
scientifically oriented.
I want to understand the
world in scientific terms.
But it was the-- really the
first time that I sort of had
to confront the difference
between my spiritual beliefs
that we can survive
our bodily death
and this deeply-held belief,
scientific belief of mine
that it's the brain
that's doing the thinking.
And I realized it was--
I had a kind of epiphany
where I thought I--
it isn't the brain that's
doing the thinking.
So I am not entirely
certain that it's just
the electromagnetic
interference patterns-- that
is, the brain hologram--
because those obviously would
perish when the brain perishes.
I think there might be some
subtler level, some subtler
energy that we haven't
discovered with our technology
that's involved in this also.
>> Well, Bohm's model is
relevant and interesting
at this point, because he's
not dealing with the universe
as a hologram made out of
electromagnetic interference
patterns.
He's looking at quantum
wave potentials which--
>> Right.
>> --are at a much deeper level.
And I must say, I've
heard Pribram discuss it
much the same way.
There are quantum wave
potentials in the brain itself,
which is a much more deeply
embedded level of energy
and matter than the
electromagnetic level.
- Right.
It's a funny thing in science.
The great physicist,
Hermann Bondi,
said-- called it the
lure of completeness,
that we tend-- when we find
some sort of outermost perimeter
to what we can
measure, we assume
there's nothing beyond it.
And I refer to it--
it's kind of like the
lu-- in ancient times,
when we only knew a certain
portion of the world,
people always seemed to say
beyond the edge of the map,
there be monsters, that
there was nothing there.
And the same thing is
going on in physics,
that we have, with
our technology,
reached down to a
certain level in reality.
And it's a common prejudice
among many physicists that
beyond that level, there's--
nothing exists.
There be monsters.
There's just a void.
And it's an interesting
thing that we-- as I say,
we have to have this
lure of completeness.
We have to feel that our
knowledge of the universe
is all that exists
in the universe.
Bohm, I think, is--
very wisely is one of
the few physicians who
comes out and kind
of says, the emperor
has no clothes, says,
what rational basis do--
it's just prejudice that
we assume nothing exists
beyond this level of reality.
And he feels that there are
all kinds of domains of reality
beyond this level--
this microscopic level.
And he theorizes that there may
be untold, uncountable subtle--
subtler energies
in these levels.
The quantum potential is one.
It's a theorized ener--
a theorized field
that has not been measured
or discovered with science,
but Bohm feels there's evidence
to posit its existence.
>> And it's now rather well
accepted, I understand,
among quantum physicists.
>>I wouldn't say that.
>> Oh.
>> No, it's pretty
controversial.
And the reason
it's controversial
is because the standard
explanation of quantum physics
has bought--
has decided that-- this
lure of completeness,
that there's nothing beyond.
The Danish physicist,
Niels Bohr,
who was one of the founders
of quantum physics,
basically said there's--
you get down to a
certain level of reality,
and things become blurry,
and you can't know anymore.
And Bohm takes a very different
route, which at this point
is very sort of looked down
upon by a lot of physicists,
because most have been schooled
in the way of Bohr's thinking.
>> Yes.
>> And Bohm-- the quantum
potential is not looked upon
kindly by most
physics, I would say.
>> Well, I don't think we
want to get into too technical
a discussion of quantum
physics at the moment.
But I do think it's important
to bring up the uncertainty
principle because it--
in a way, it's where
physics comes full circle.
And as I understand,
physics are saying, well,
there may be all kinds of stuff.
But we'll never know it,
because we interact with it.
Anytime we attempt
to look at particles
beyond a certain level, the
very act of observation changes
things.
And that brings us
to a point where
we realize that the distinction
between subject and object
breaks down.
>> Right.
But physicists get
very funny about it.
They get kind of schizophrenic,
because they'll openly
admit that subject and
object breaks down there.
But they say that
somehow this has
no effect in the real
world, this does not
translate from the microscopic
level to our level,
although there is a sort
of creeping evidence
in the scientific world that it
does translate into our level.
One obvious example, I
think, that it translates
into our level is that helium
cannot be frozen solid.
Or you can freeze
hydrogen solid.
You can freeze
carbon dioxide solid.
But helium-- for helium
to go-- to become--
its atoms to align
in a solid form
would violate the
uncertainty principle.
And nature doesn't
seem to allow that.
So you can't-- no matter
how cold helium gets,
it remains a liquid.
That, to me, if-- you can have
a beaker full of liquid helium,
and that exists at our
level of existence.
And it's a sort of manifestation
of the uncertainty principle,
and it's-- where it's sort of
slipped over into our world.
There are other things
going on right now that--
where there's a device
called a SQUID, which
is a sort of electrical coil in
which it looks like we may be
able to demonstrate that the
current-- if you say which
direction is the current
going in the coil,
it's going both
directions at once,
which is kind of
an impossibility
to simultaneously do that.
That too is a quantum phenomena,
that these two realities
are overlapping.
So I think we will
cross that barrier.
>> Well, I must admit, Michael,
I'm not sure that I totally
grasp the implications
of those examples.
But the examples I
would like to focus
on that do seem more
relevant are the ones
that suggest the enormous
ability of the mind
to affect systems in the body--
the placebo effect, the work
with healing and visualization.
>> Well, this gets away
from Bohm into Pribram,
but it's equally interesting
with equally profound
implications.
Pribram, as I said,
says that we're
thinking with holograms
inside our head
and that out there
exists something that's
more akin to the radio
waves in the room
from which your
TV gets the image.
So in essence, we're kind
of conscious TV sets.
And what we think is reality.
When we look out here, it's
really just the image on the TV
set inside our mind, but
doesn't exist out there.
And Pribram says, this is why
there's all kinds of evidence
that we seem to respond more
to the models of reality
in our head than out there.
In "The Holographic
Universe," I give an example
of a psychologist
who did a study where
he took soldiers and marched
them all the same distance.
But he told some they marched--
like he marched them
all 30 mi-- or 20 miles,
but told some they marched
10, some they marched 20,
some they marched 30.
But they all marched
the same distance.
At the end, he took
physiological readings
and discovered that they were--
that their-- physiologically,
they responded not to the actual
mileage that they had marched,
but to what they had been told,
the model of reality that they
assumed they had--
the reality in their heads.
And in medicine, people have
used this, this application--
the holographic
idea that we respond
to the model of reality-- to say
this may be why we respond more
to the placebos, to fake drugs.
There's a very famous
example of a fellow who
had lymphatic cancer,
tumors the size of oranges
all throughout his body.
His doctor basically thought
he had about three days
left to live.
The fellow heard about a new
drug called Krebiozen and said,
you've got to give this to me.
And the doctor said,
well, frankly, I
don't think you
have long to live,
and this drug takes several
weeks to take effect.
The man implored
him, and the doctor
gave in sort of
as an act of pity.
He gave the man Krebiozen.
And three days later,
the man's tumors
melted, as the doctor
put it, like snowballs
on a hot stove-- completely
gone out of his body,
faster than the strongest
radiation treatment could've
melted them away.
Man is up and around, walking
around his hospital room,
resumes his normal life.
Seems to be completely
cancer free.
Several months down the line,
he reads an article saying
Krebiozen isn't that effective.
Boom, boom, boom.
All his tumors come back.
He's back in the hospital.
The doctor starts to
realize that maybe it
wasn't the drug that cured
the man but the man's belief.
So he lies to the man and he
says, those articles are wrong.
Krebiozen is effective.
And, in fact, I've got an even
more potent version of it.
He injects just saltwater
into the man's veins.
Again, the man's
tumors melt away.
He resumes his normal life.
Unfortunately, many
months down the line,
he reads final
studies on Krebiozen,
saying it's completely
ineffective.
Boom, boom, boom.
His tumors come
back, and he dies.
But the bottom line
is somehow this man
had the ability to access some
deep level of healing cau--
himself.
It wasn't the drug, because
saltwater worked just
as well as this alleged drug.
And so, again,
here's an instance
where he responded to
the model of reality
in his head, this deep belief
that this drug would heal him,
even though he
wasn't even receiving
the drug at a certain
point in his treatment.
And his body responded in kind.
And that, to me, is the
most exciting aspect
of the holographic idea.
And there are countless
examples of it.
There's a study of a new
chemotherapy in England
where they took a group
of cancer patients.
Half the patients,
they gave the drug.
Half the patients, they
gave a placebo, a fake.
No one knew who was receiving
the real drug or not.
They told all the patients,
this is a very toxic drug.
May cause you to lose your hair.
30% of the people receiving
just the fake lost their hair.
And when I first heard this,
I immediately thought, oh,
my gosh, about every donut
that I'd ever eaten in my life
and thought, oh, this is
really bad for me, that I'm--
I may be responding to
the model of reality
more than the nutritional
aspects of the donut.
>> Well, I think the stories
of this kind have been known
to scientists for hundreds,
hundreds of years,
but they've kind of been
dismissed because scientists
haven't had a good way to
look at the possibility that
consciousness can
affect physical systems,
that we think of consciousness
as an epiphenomenon.
>> Right.
>> But if one considers that
there are standing waves,
interference patterns
in the brain,
holographic images that
gives consciousness a--
I hate to use the
term mechanism,
because I don't
think that's quite--
>> Right.
>> --the right term.
But it gives people
a model in which
they can begin to
appreciate more
of the role of consciousness.
>> That's true.
And it also can be
applied in another way.
Because if the universe is
organized holographically--
I mean, we've always believed
that there is no connection
between the brain and the body.
And, of cour-- I mean,
for most of the history
of medical science in the west.
In the past couple
of decades, we're
starting to say
there's a connection.
And we're sorting
out certain pathways,
the neuropeptide systems,
that sort of thing.
But if the holographic
model is correct,
there are so many
interconnections
between the brain and the body,
there ceases to be a division.
So it becomes
almost a moot point
to say, what is the pathway?
How is the brain
connected to the body?
Because there's no
difference, just
like there's no difference
between those two electrodes.
>> Well, and to take it a
step further, as you do,
one might say there is no solid,
clear-cut distinction between
ourselves and the rest
of the whole universe.
I mean, this has
profound implications
for spiritual experiences,
of which you've
had quite a number.
And perhaps in the
time remaining,
we should touch
on more of those.
>> Yeah, very much so.
As I said, I've always been
very interested in science,
but I also grew up in
a very-- with a lot
of very unusual experiences,
not the least of which
is that I grew up in a house
with a poltergeist haunting.
So I had all kinds of
examples of psychokinesis,
of objects moving about on their
own, when I was growing up.
And I really-- it was strange
in the sense that for me,
it was normal.
And I had to learn
that it was abnormal,
and a rather painful
learning as I grew up.
And my friends would
find it very strange
that these things would occur.
And one of the things
that Bohm says,
because Bohm addresses the topic
of psychokinesis, is, again,
we don't--
we may be mistaken to try
to approach psychokinesis
by saying, what energy
is leaving the brain
to move the object?
Because as Bohm says, there's
no division between the objects.
>> Psychokinesis means
mind over matter.
>> Right.
Moving the objects with
just the power of thought
alone, that we are as connected
to that object as borderless.
We're a continuum
with the object
as the patterns in a carpet.
So for us to move
the object, maybe it
bumps as just an
act of resonance,
of realizing that there's
no division between us.
>> And can we talk for a moment
about the issue of life after
death or spiritual experiences
of other realities?
>> Yeah.
That's one of the areas
you had mentioned earlier,
that one of the exciting things
about the holographic idea
is that people have
taken this and explored
all different realms, that
some have used it to say
this is how acupuncture works.
Because it turns
out that there are
little micro-acupuncture
systems where
you can find the entire
body in the acupuncture
points of the ear.
>> Recapitulated--
>> Right.
>> --in the ear, yes.
That we've talked about
the placebo effect--
some have said that the
holographic idea applies
in near-death experiences.
One of these individuals
is Kenneth Ring
who is at the University
of Connecticut,
studies near-death experiences.
And it's interesting.
Because in report
after report of people
who have been declared
clinically dead--
go through some apparent
other level of reality
and then come back--
they refer to this
other level of reality
with terms like frequency
and energy and even hologram,
that it's a plastic--
a more plastic level of
reality, where thought
seems to create
things instantly.
There are instances of people
having near-death experiences
where they think they're hungry.
And instantly, food appears.
Or perhaps an even
better example--
when people find themselves
out of their body,
there are cases where
people look down and see
that they're in a naked body.
And they go, oh, my gosh.
I'm naked.
Instantly, they
have clothing on.
Now we don't assume that
clothing has a soul, that it
has a spirit that survives.
So somehow, it appears that
the mind can sort of pull out
of this ocean of frequency
a hologram of clothing.
And this is what
Ken Ring says is,
is that we're entering
deeper into the hologram when
we have near-death experiences,
when we leave our bodies.
>> So there's so many different
areas that have kind of been
at the fringes of our
understanding that we can now
begin to look at with new eyes.
Michael Talbot, it's been a
pleasure to have you with me.
And for those of
you watching, you
may be interested in knowing
that this discussion will
be part of a "Thinking Allowed"
inner work videotape available
along with an additional
hour of discussion
going deeper into these
questions with Michael Talbot.
Michael, thanks so
much for being with me.
>> My pleasure, Jeffrey.
>> And thank you
for being with us.
[THEME MUSIC]